Pay you guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about expectations
around your development business and what is the startup timeline going to look like and what you should
expect from it.
So is a web development business something that you could start on a Tuesday and make money with on
a Wednesday.
Well no.
Typically it's not the case unless you already have some set up arrangements before or you already have
some clientele and you're a programmer yourself and it might be the case that you can make some money
pretty much immediately.
But for 95 percent of the cases there's going to be a lot of work that goes up upfront in your business
before you start bringing in clientele.
So like any business out there your first going to have to start and do some strategy work.
Your first can have to figure out what is your angle what exactly you're going to try to sell.
Or you can pick a niche or you're going to be a generalist are you going to pick a specific technology.
What are you going to try to go after.
What do you think your value proposition is going to be.
We're going to cover later in the course.
How do you pick what your value proposition should be and also how do you decide whether or not you
should be a nice operator or a general kind of operator.
Those are entirely different lecturers.
But right now we're just talking about how the beginning of your startup you're going to think about
these things.
So yeah first you're gonna have to think about what exactly are you going to do and how are you going
to tackle this because it's a lot of different ways you can do this.
You can be a mobile only studio.
You could be a web only studio you could only work with wordpress you could only work with Drupal you
could specifically only work with front end technologies.
Lot of different ways you can do this so initially you need to make these decisions up front end and
I personally suggest that you do a little bit of research to see what you think there's an opportunity
for.
But more importantly take a little bit of time to assess where your skills are if you're a programmer
then it's probably going to be a smart thing to go into an area where you already have some prior established
skills or experience and if you don't then you should probably go into an area that you have some sort
of an inclination towards or if you have some deep connection to a specific business vertical or a specific
business community that might be how you angle this but there's usually a period of time at the very
beginning where you try to figure out how exactly you're going to do this and you need to understand
that while this is happening you're not going to make a ton of progress.
So it just depends on you and how quickly you can make decisions.
Some people just know exactly how they want to do this.
They know what angle they're going to go for they know how they want to present themselves and they're
going to do it tomorrow.
But some of you it might take a little bit of prodding and poking and figuring out what you think actually
makes sense and what you think actually works.
So after you do that you're going to first try to set up a presence for yourself somehow.
It might be the case that you know only all you do is make a profile on some freelancing Web sites.
It might be the case that you make your own web site itself.
And it might be the case that you only set up like a Facebook page but at first you're going to have
to spend a little bit of time figuring out a way that if people want to find you they can find you after
you've done that and you have some basic level identity.
It's probably something you're not going to be happy with by the way it's just going to be basic it's
just going to get your name out there.
Get away for people to contact you after that.
Then you're going to focus on how to capture clients and often simultaneously how you can piece together
a good team.
So now it really doesn't matter which way you go at this.
When I started Sprint kick I did both.
I actually started putting together a team wall I was looking for clients.
And it's I suggest doing that because finding the right team and finding the right freelancers it's
very trial and error and also finding a traction channel a way that you can get your word out there
and find people who are willing to pay you.
That also takes some trial and error.
And so if you do both at the same time they'll probably come together around the same kind of converge
at the same time and then everything will kind of come together.
But after you set out your project just be aware that there is what we kind of call the trough of sorrow
where you're putting yourself out there.
You know what your angle is but there's just going be a period of time where you just do not know exactly
where are going to find your big clients from and where are going to find your consistent business from.
It's a lot of work trying to figure that out and trying to test out everything you can.
And for a while there it's going to feel like you're not doing anything right.
Like with any business you just need to have faith.
People are always going to need development services for web and mobile.
They're always going to need that.
Right.
And they all get it from somewhere.
So there's always going to be an opportunity to either do it better or cheaper or find someone who you
can replace because have a better relationship with.
So just be aware that this is a process and this process takes some time.
Don't obviously get discouraged if you're in this process.
Obviously take advantage of me and the group discussions so that we can all kind of help you out.
But just understand that after that happens you're gonna have this period of time you're trying to configure
everything and you're trying to figure out who is excited about your product offering and you are also
trying to figure out what exactly can you build.
So after some experimentation you're going to start to figure out who are the good designers who are
the good developers who's consistent who's reliable who are the people that you might want to work with
full time or even hire full time.
And once you figure that out you'll start having a better idea of what exactly you good at what exactly
you could build.
And all of a sudden you'll know kind of where you're competitive and where you're not.
So I'll give you an example a Sprint card with Sprint kick we started off looking for pretty much anybody
who would be interested in what we were doing.
We looked at people who just wanted to make an e-commerce web store.
We looked for people who just wanted to make a blog and then we also look for people who wanted to build
custom applications from scratch.
What we found out was that our expertise and what we were competitive at was building large web applications
from scratch.
Why.
Because we were cheaper than everybody else and we had a lot of prior experience to that.
And also we weren't particularly great at keeping tabs of what every single technology that's out there
that helps you set up a web store or a basic web presence.
Now you could make a lot of money off of just going off for people who want to build blogs for us that
just didn't work out.
So we found our niche after we put together a team after we had a couple of projects and after we kind
of figured out you know this project came out good.
And this project came out a disaster.
Clearly something is intrinsic to how we are working and intrinsic to who we are that made this successful
and this one not so realistically keep your head in the game.
Just understand that since there are so many different ways you can create a development business.
Its going to take you a while to find your road to find the group of people that love what you do love
how you do it and are willing to pay you money and it just takes time.
Now if you're someone who already has prior established networks or a deep domain expertise in something
then you have a pretty much a leg up.
You say your real estate agent and you want to start building web sites for real estate agents.
Your innate knowledge of real estate and networking with real estate and also with the fact that you
can approach people as a real estate agent that's really going to help you out and that's going to essentially
accelerate the startup timeline for you.
But for the rest of us out there we're just starting generic companies who maybe don't have an immediate
business network or an immediate group of people that we know we can email and get sales from.
It's just going to take some time.
Now if you follow this course we're going to go over all of the different ways that we found that consistently
will make business or consistently at least get you good consistent reliable leads.
Now I don't expect all of them to work for you I expect a couple to work really well and the rest of
them probably maybe not worth it for what you're trying to do or not cost effective for how you do it.
So be aware like any other business it's just going to take a lot of finagling it's going to take a
lot of time and effort to figure out how it works how impressive you have to get how big your portfolio
has to get before people start paying you a lot of money after you figure out what you're good at and
who likes your stuff then it's a question of just growing or kind of becoming a master of the clients
that you already have.
Eventually you get to a point where your portfolio is large enough.
Your referral base is large enough that you essentially have to.
You can stop advertising for one and two you can start charging a lot more money because it a lot of
times it ends up happening is people will see your work or they've heard about you or you become saturated
in one area or one niche enough that people are willing to pay a premium to work with you at first you're
really going to be groveling and trying to really hardcore discount and make promises that are borderline
hard to actually uphold to get business.
But over time it gets a lot a lot easier to the point at which where we're at now four years later where
we turned down nine out of 10 projects we literally only pick one out of 10 because we know that we
can absolutely do a fantastic job.
It's worth it for us.
Cost effective wise and it's worth it for us schedule wise.
But it just takes time to get to that point.
So be aware that there's a trough of sorrow you need to be a little bit persistent but if you follow
all the advice in this course you'll be able to cut the time honestly by half.
You'll probably move 80 percent of the time it takes to figure out what your niche is what is going
to be your repeatable strategy for finding business and how are you going to deliver on your promises
and ultimately make good margins.
Okay.
So if any of you guys thought this is going to be easy I've hopefully destroyed all kind of hope that
you have.
It's not entirely incredibly hard but just keep in mind it's something that takes time.
Follow the advice in this course you'll be able to accelerate your growth so much faster.
But just do be aware that there's going to be a period where it takes a while to figure everything out.
So see in the next lecture.